was the first Muslim country to
recognize the state of Israel in 1949
but is now the first of Israel's major
Partners to Halt trade over the war in
Gaza a vocal critic of Israel's actions
in the strip president Reb T ardogan has
put a stop to trade worth $9.5 billion
until a permanent ceasefire and
humanitarian aid for Gaza are
secured companies with high volumes of
trade with Israel appear to have kept
silent but other business associations
are supporting the
decision in such case we think that the
right things have been done the Turkish
economy and trade are strong more than
$200 billion is exported by turkey to
132 countries it included Israel only in
a minor measure TOA does not therefore
lose here in April turkey also reduced
exports of Steel fertilizer and jet fuel
among other products over what it said
was Israel's refusal to allow Ankara to
carry out airdrops of Aid into Gaza
although ankara's decision last month to
bend exports of dozens of types of
products targeted the most important
industries of Israel president eron's
latest announcement to cut all trade has
yet to be officially published many
believe these moves are really aimed at
consolidating the Islamic power base of
the ruling go party after It sped badly
in municipal elections in
March while some blame the losses in the
polls on a declining economy the party
is also believed to have lost support
after the opposition and the other
critics accuse the government of failing
to penalize Israel for its war on the
Gaza Strip Under World Trade
Organization rules members are allowed
to block foreign trade if National
Security and International Peace are
threatened
this is beyond an Israel Hamas issue
International Peace is undoubtedly
threatened by this Regional if not
possible global conflict Israel's drive
for Rafa the strikes on the Iranian
Embassy in Syria directly endanger our
nation with a possible fresh wave of
refugees whatever the consequences of
President eron's actions he appears to
be hoping his move May encourage other
nations to stand against Israel that has
long ignored the UN Security Council
demand for an immediate ceasefire in
Gaza cam KOLO aler
stul make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer